README.md, before:

# deluge2-win-build
A set of scripts to prepare prerequisites for and build Deluge2 on Windows 10

## IMPORTANT!
The current release folder for these builds (the "Deluge2 Unofficial Installer for Windows" Google Drive Folder) contains several older builds with older build logic and library versions just in case you would find it useful to go back. 
PLEASE switch to List View (top right corner icon) to see the file dates and download the _latest_ version **unless you know what you are doing!**
Your maintainer mostly uses the latest, non-portable dev version with thin client and daemon mode on Windows 10 with the Adwaita-dark theme, so consider that combination the best tested.

## BUILDING
To build Deluge2 for windows use the scripts in the below order.

### Install the prerequisites
```install_components.cmd```
1.	7zip
2.	MSYS2
3.	NullSoft Scriptable Intstaller System
4.	NSprocess plugin for NSIS for process control
5.	StrContains plugin for NSIS
6.	Microsoft Visual Studio 2019

Using ```openssl-build\openssl.cmd```
7.	Latest OpenSSL release

### Build
1.	GTK-3 using wingtk/gvsbuild ```gvsbuild-build\gvsbuild.cmd```
2.	Libtorrent, 3 flavours, including and using Boost and it's B2 build system and the latest Python version ```libtorrent-build\{lt-RC_1_2.cmd,lt-RC_1_1.cmd,lt-1.2.3.cmd}```
3.	Deluge: the latest release version and the latest dev version. Including and using the latest Python version. ```deluge-build\{deluge-dev.cmd,deluge-stable.cmd}```
4.	Installers for the above ```installer-build\{installer-both.cmd,installer-dev.cmd,installer-stable.cmd}```

The current set of scripts is a work in progress lacking several flavours of cleanup, see TODO at the end. Priority is given to features so the cleanup is not yet finished, patches / PRs
are welcome! ;)

## CHANGE LOG

### 3-Aug-2020 - fix missing files for Test connection

1.	The extensive file clean up removed a bit too many files, fixed for test connection problem reported.
2.	Shorten installer filename another 7 characters.

### 2-Aug-2020 - publish build scripts and guide at on github

1.	Find the scripts and guide on [github](https://github.com/petersasi/deluge2-win-build)
2.	Removed the patches from the relese download site as now they are available on github.

### 1-Aug-2020 - portable install fix and Latest GTK3

1.	Fixed the portability move of the profile folder into the install dir.
2.	Built GTK 3.24.21 into the new install.

### 31-Jul-2020 - 34% smaller, Win integration, portability&build fixes, new vers

1.	One third smaller installer and Installed Deluge folder through profiling of deluge, deluged, deluge-web and deluge-console using Process Monitor and removing the files not used according to the profiling.
	_EXCEPTIONS_ are .exe files and folders that have 'locale' or 'hazmat' in their name.
	**PLEASE test and let me know if I have removed too much!!!**
2.	Better Windows integration through alternative loaders, courtesy of @MHerz:
	- Now can pin deluge on taskbar
	- shows only one deluge / deluged / deluge-web process, python[w].exe is embedded.
	- loader has Deluge icons
3.	Updated LibTorrent to 1.2.8 released 30-Jul-2020.
4.	Updated to Python to version 3.8.5 released on 20-Jul-2020.
5.	Portable install fix to put the deluge profile folder as well in the data subfolder of the deluge install folder in case of portable installations, courtesy of @MHerz.
6.	Updated te GeoIP database and added the automated GeoIP database update to the build system, courtesy of @MHerz.
7.	Fixed the torrentmanager.py patch from @djlegolas for the stable deluge-build.
8.	Install wheel using pip during deluge-build to avoid build warnings.
9.	Removed LIBTORRENT_REVISION from the file names as it seems useless. Other installer name fixes.
10.	Stopped copying the vcvarsall.bat around to make the LibTorrent build happy using proper build commands.
11.	Added up to date ```LibTorrent-ChangeLog.txt```, ```GTK-3.24-ChangeLog.txt``` and ```Python-ChangeLog.txt``` to the "Deluge2 Unofficial Installer for Windows" folder to make it easy for you to check what fixes are included in the new version.
12.	Moved earlier releases to an Archive folder.

### 21-Jun-2020 - make deluge-console.exe work for non-interactive commands

1.	Created a patch to swallow the AttributeError because of not having the signal SIGWINCH on Windows in Python windows-curses. Now you can run:
	```deluge-console.exe status```
	```deluge-console.exe info``` etc.
	[A ticket](https://dev.deluge-torrent.org/ticket/3409 ) is submitted with a patch for this.
2.	Created a patch to replace the "Deluge-console does not run in interactive mode on Windows." message and exiting. Instead we just log a debug message and carry on. Now the interactive UI starts but does not accept any input. The log is full of a twister error for win32select. I am stuck here, will have to ask for the help of the devs.
	[A ticket](https://dev.deluge-torrent.org/ticket/3410) is submitted with a patch for this.
3.	Published patches in a folder on the download site.

### 20-Jun-2020	- revive deluge-console, updated Deluge patch, reduced build size, enhanced build scripts, ChangeLog

1.	The default ncurses in Python is not supported (and does not work) on Windows. Including [windows-curses 2.1.0](https://pypi.org/project/windows-curses/) in the hope to revive that - it should have a hack to make it work (thanks for the report @mystikfox!)
2. PR by @djlegolas regarding ignoring untrue libtorrent 1.2.x tracker errors from UIs was updated - replaced the old URL in the ```deluge-build\deluge-{dev,stable}.cmd``` scripts.
3.	Refactored the folder cleanup logic in ```deluge-build\deluge-{dev,stable}.cmd``` scripts to use a list from a text file instead of the previously 12 later much more lines of ```rd /s /q``` (```"%programfiles%\deluge\"``` added to all).
4.	First slimming of the installer by profiling to find files never touched, removed - this round only strips away complete folders unused:
	- test / tests / unittest folders: 18.2MB
	- demos folders: 0.9MB 
	- gobject-intospection folders: 1MB
	- legacy folders from the Adwaita theme: 7.6MB
	- ensurepip folders: 2MB
	- doc folders: 0.7MB
	Result:
	-	uncompressed set of install files down from 226MB to 202MB installer size is down 11MB (including the newly added ```windows-curses```)
	- 	the profile log, filelist and Excel pivots used are uploaded to the 
		CleanUpInstallerByProfiling folder in the dowlnoad site.
5.	Replaced the remaining genric variable names with meaningful names.
6.	Decided to start writing this ChangeLog.txt :-D

### 02-Jun-2020 - deluge*.exe portability regression fix, build script fixes

1. 	update to libtorrent 1.2.7 (thanks for the report @highvoltage!)
2.	I got rid of the remnants of the C:\Program Files\Deluge2 folder, anyways, for a long time this installer too installs into ```C:\Program Files\Deluge```.
3.	Updated ```deluge-build\deluge-stable.cmd``` and the ```deluge-dev.cmd``` to handle	8.3 paths as well.
4.	updated fixdeluged.py and fixdeluge-web.py did need updates too
5.	indicate the python, OpenSSL and GTK versions  used for the build in the installer name.

### 29-May-2020 - libtorrent and boost upgrades and optimization

1.	boost is updated to 1.73
2.	both 1.1.x and 1.2.x libtorrent builds are optimized for speed not space.
3.	libtorrent and boost versions used for the build are indicated in the installer name.

### 29-May-2020 - first release in the new download location

1.	[New release folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1bCwij_GEy8nhqR6EynXYY_Yl7XuWYpVT)
2.	update to libtorrent 1.2.6

## TODO
-	seems like some files for the 'en' and 'en-US' locale are not getting built properly, gotta check out and fix
-	Remove the trailing, 4th level, seemingly useless .0 from ```LIBTORRENT_VERSION```
-	Merge libtorrent build scripts (x3) and deluge-build scripts (x2)
-	Bail out of the scipts on build error: ```|| echo ERROR Command returned error. && exit /b %errorlevel%```
-	Make sure the build scripts work in any folder, not only ```c:\deluge2```
-	Refactor the .cmd files into "clean-code": use ```@echo``` instead of ```@rem``` :)

Commit message:

lib folder for common build code an createlinks.cmd to create a symlink to it into each build folder

README.md, after:

# deluge2-win-build
A set of scripts to prepare prerequisites for and build Deluge2 on Windows 10

## IMPORTANT!
The current release folder for these builds (the "Deluge2 Unofficial Installer for Windows" Google Drive Folder) contains several older builds with older build logic and library versions just in case you would find it useful to go back. 
PLEASE switch to List View (top right corner icon) to see the file dates and download the _latest_ version **unless you know what you are doing!**
Your maintainer mostly uses the latest, non-portable dev version with thin client and daemon mode on Windows 10 with the Adwaita-dark theme, so consider that combination the best tested.

## BUILDING
To build Deluge2 for windows use the scripts in the below order.

### Install the prerequisites
```install_components.cmd```
1.	7zip
2.	MSYS2
3.	NullSoft Scriptable Intstaller System
4.	NSprocess plugin for NSIS for process control
5.	StrContains plugin for NSIS
6.	Microsoft Visual Studio 2019

Using ```openssl-build\openssl.cmd```
7.	Latest OpenSSL release

Using ```createlinks.cmd```
8.	Create links for the shared code in the lib folder

### Build
1.	GTK-3 using wingtk/gvsbuild ```gvsbuild-build\gvsbuild.cmd```
2.	Libtorrent, 3 flavours, including and using Boost and it's B2 build system and the latest Python version ```libtorrent-build\{lt-RC_1_2.cmd,lt-RC_1_1.cmd,lt-1.2.3.cmd}```
3.	Deluge: the latest release version and the latest dev version. Including and using the latest Python version. ```deluge-build\{deluge-dev.cmd,deluge-stable.cmd}```
4.	Installers for the above ```installer-build\{installer-both.cmd,installer-dev.cmd,installer-stable.cmd}```

The current set of scripts is a work in progress lacking several flavours of cleanup, see TODO at the end. Priority is given to features so the cleanup is not yet finished, patches / PRs
are welcome! ;)

## CHANGE LOG

### 3-Aug-2020 - fix 3rd party plugins, build menu, start organizing common build code into the lib folder 

1.	Added Build Menu cmd file from MHerz
2.	Added a lib folder for common build code an createlinks.cmd to create a symlink to it into each build folder

### 3-Aug-2020 - fix missing files for Test connection

1.	The extensive file clean up removed a bit too many files, fixed for test connection problem reported.
2.	Shorten installer filename another 7 characters.

### 2-Aug-2020 - publish build scripts and guide at on github

1.	Find the scripts and guide on [github](https://github.com/petersasi/deluge2-win-build)
2.	Removed the patches from the relese download site as now they are available on github.

### 1-Aug-2020 - portable install fix and Latest GTK3

1.	Fixed the portability move of the profile folder into the install dir.
2.	Built GTK 3.24.21 into the new install.

### 31-Jul-2020 - 34% smaller, Win integration, portability&build fixes, new vers

1.	One third smaller installer and Installed Deluge folder through profiling of deluge, deluged, deluge-web and deluge-console using Process Monitor and removing the files not used according to the profiling.
	_EXCEPTIONS_ are .exe files and folders that have 'locale' or 'hazmat' in their name.
	**PLEASE test and let me know if I have removed too much!!!**
2.	Better Windows integration through alternative loaders, courtesy of @MHerz:
	- Now can pin deluge on taskbar
	- shows only one deluge / deluged / deluge-web process, python[w].exe is embedded.
	- loader has Deluge icons
3.	Updated LibTorrent to 1.2.8 released 30-Jul-2020.
4.	Updated to Python to version 3.8.5 released on 20-Jul-2020.
5.	Portable install fix to put the deluge profile folder as well in the data subfolder of the deluge install folder in case of portable installations, courtesy of @MHerz.
6.	Updated te GeoIP database and added the automated GeoIP database update to the build system, courtesy of @MHerz.
7.	Fixed the torrentmanager.py patch from @djlegolas for the stable deluge-build.
8.	Install wheel using pip during deluge-build to avoid build warnings.
9.	Removed LIBTORRENT_REVISION from the file names as it seems useless. Other installer name fixes.
10.	Stopped copying the vcvarsall.bat around to make the LibTorrent build happy using proper build commands.
11.	Added up to date ```LibTorrent-ChangeLog.txt```, ```GTK-3.24-ChangeLog.txt``` and ```Python-ChangeLog.txt``` to the "Deluge2 Unofficial Installer for Windows" folder to make it easy for you to check what fixes are included in the new version.
12.	Moved earlier releases to an Archive folder.

### 21-Jun-2020 - make deluge-console.exe work for non-interactive commands

1.	Created a patch to swallow the AttributeError because of not having the signal SIGWINCH on Windows in Python windows-curses. Now you can run:
	```deluge-console.exe status```
	```deluge-console.exe info``` etc.
	[A ticket](https://dev.deluge-torrent.org/ticket/3409 ) is submitted with a patch for this.
2.	Created a patch to replace the "Deluge-console does not run in interactive mode on Windows." message and exiting. Instead we just log a debug message and carry on. Now the interactive UI starts but does not accept any input. The log is full of a twister error for win32select. I am stuck here, will have to ask for the help of the devs.
	[A ticket](https://dev.deluge-torrent.org/ticket/3410) is submitted with a patch for this.
3.	Published patches in a folder on the download site.

### 20-Jun-2020	- revive deluge-console, updated Deluge patch, reduced build size, enhanced build scripts, ChangeLog

1.	The default ncurses in Python is not supported (and does not work) on Windows. Including [windows-curses 2.1.0](https://pypi.org/project/windows-curses/) in the hope to revive that - it should have a hack to make it work (thanks for the report @mystikfox!)
2. PR by @djlegolas regarding ignoring untrue libtorrent 1.2.x tracker errors from UIs was updated - replaced the old URL in the ```deluge-build\deluge-{dev,stable}.cmd``` scripts.
3.	Refactored the folder cleanup logic in ```deluge-build\deluge-{dev,stable}.cmd``` scripts to use a list from a text file instead of the previously 12 later much more lines of ```rd /s /q``` (```"%programfiles%\deluge\"``` added to all).
4.	First slimming of the installer by profiling to find files never touched, removed - this round only strips away complete folders unused:
	- test / tests / unittest folders: 18.2MB
	- demos folders: 0.9MB 
	- gobject-intospection folders: 1MB
	- legacy folders from the Adwaita theme: 7.6MB
	- ensurepip folders: 2MB
	- doc folders: 0.7MB
	Result:
	-	uncompressed set of install files down from 226MB to 202MB installer size is down 11MB (including the newly added ```windows-curses```)
	- 	the profile log, filelist and Excel pivots used are uploaded to the 
		CleanUpInstallerByProfiling folder in the dowlnoad site.
5.	Replaced the remaining genric variable names with meaningful names.
6.	Decided to start writing this ChangeLog.txt :-D

### 02-Jun-2020 - deluge*.exe portability regression fix, build script fixes

1. 	update to libtorrent 1.2.7 (thanks for the report @highvoltage!)
2.	I got rid of the remnants of the C:\Program Files\Deluge2 folder, anyways, for a long time this installer too installs into ```C:\Program Files\Deluge```.
3.	Updated ```deluge-build\deluge-stable.cmd``` and the ```deluge-dev.cmd``` to handle	8.3 paths as well.
4.	updated fixdeluged.py and fixdeluge-web.py did need updates too
5.	indicate the python, OpenSSL and GTK versions  used for the build in the installer name.

### 29-May-2020 - libtorrent and boost upgrades and optimization

1.	boost is updated to 1.73
2.	both 1.1.x and 1.2.x libtorrent builds are optimized for speed not space.
3.	libtorrent and boost versions used for the build are indicated in the installer name.

### 29-May-2020 - first release in the new download location

1.	[New release folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1bCwij_GEy8nhqR6EynXYY_Yl7XuWYpVT)
2.	update to libtorrent 1.2.6

## TODO
-	seems like some files for the 'en' and 'en-US' locale are not getting built properly, gotta check out and fix
-	Remove the trailing, 4th level, seemingly useless .0 from ```LIBTORRENT_VERSION```
-	Merge libtorrent build scripts (x3) and deluge-build scripts (x2)
-	Bail out of the scipts on build error: ```|| echo ERROR Command returned error. && exit /b %errorlevel%```
-	Make sure the build scripts work in any folder, not only ```c:\deluge2```
-	Refactor the .cmd files into "clean-code": use ```@echo``` instead of ```@rem``` :)
